There are several different types,
the most common one or the most well known one is the one that was pioneered by Velodyne,
and this is rotating lidar.
You have a rod,
where you have a bunch of lasers on that rod that rotates 360 degrees continuously,
sending out pulses so you get this picture of the environment,
360 degrees and several different layers.
That lidar rotates at about 10 Hertz,
that's the most common one.
Then there are lidars that use little micro mirrors
or larger mirrors to scan the laser beam
across the one laser beam then across the field of view.
You have solid-state lidars that use a phased array type principle,
like phased array radars,
where the phase differences between beams are used to steer,
basically steer the beam.
You have lidars that use the dispersion relationship and prisms,
and then there are other little bit more exotic electro-optic ways of doing things.
The power that a lidar consumes is dependent on a few things.
I mean the overall system,
like the current Velodyne 32 POC uses 10 watts in total.
The old Velodyne, this huge
contraption on top of the car with the old 64 beam used about 60 watts.
But what's more interesting though is the output power of the laser,
because that depends then on the wavelengths,
and this is correlated with eye safety.
So, if you have a laser in the 905 nanometer range,
that's the shorter wavelength range that uses about two milli-watts.
If you go with a laser that's, let's say,
in the 1,500 nanometer range, that can use,
I think up to 10 times more power,
which means it can actually reach further than the short wavelengths laser,
and be as eye safe as the other one,
but it also has more expensive components.
A lidar beam is eye safe if you can look into
the lidar beam without it hurting your eye, basically.
There are different wavelengths have different power levels where this is eye safe.
There are different classes of lasers and
usually the class used for automotive lidars is class one,
that is eye safe.